You have completed KBA for Spring REST
Learning microservices
	Eureka server and client
	Docker

You are going to install Docker in your system now.
https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-windows/install/

You have installed 
	docker
	wsl update

now you check in cmd
	docker -v

------------------------------------------------------------
Docker is useful for container orchestration.

Scenario:
	Have your seen a situation where, you create a project, test it in a computer.
	When you move this project to another computer, you face some issues.

	what might be the reason

So, there are something missing or different in the target computer
	OS	differences
	jar files	missing
	system files missing		dll		msvbvm60.dll
	platform	different

these are all deployment issues

Docker provides solution for this deployment issues by 
	creating a virtual image of the runtime env package the project inside that environment

Docker image
	env we create that contains not only the application, but all everything that is required to run that application

CD	compact disk
DVD
Blue ray disk

CD is mounted in a CD drive 
	we can play the movie
	we can install s/w that are present in the cd

but many times, we have 1 CD, shared by multiple people.
	we created an image	ISO image that can be stored in a computer
	anytime, you want to load CD, you dont need CD. 
	if you have ISO image, you can mount it in a virtual drive and play as if you have mount a CD in drive.


image
	application
	all the env that is required to run that application

Docker image

The idea is, we create a docker image of our application		(spring boot application)

the client / customer wants to see your project running in their computer.
They have java??????	they have apache tomcat??		they have windows?????
DOES NOT MATTER.
	They have Docker?????? in their computer.	ENOUGH	
	That is enough. 
		I will send a docker image. Run that in your computer. It will run.

I have not installed java in a computer
But i have installed Docker in that computer

You can run docker image	(while running, the image creates a container) 

Docker Image			is a static thing like a file or program
Docker Container			is a running instance of an image. 		Process 	



Virtualization
----------------
	Virtual PC
	VMWare

How does Docker differes from Virtual PC or VMWare?
	Virtual PC or VMWare are heavy weight
	because, they create a virutal OS itself.

Docker
	we dont pack the entire OS in the image.
	we pack only the portions of OS and the other necessary lib to run our application
	it is light weight.

You have installed docker.
Lets see a magic

somebody has already created a docker image and pushed it to a remote repository.
	is it git hub?

	no it is docker hub

hub.docker.com
	all of you sign up to this

1) running an existing docker image from hub.docker.com

in28min/todo-rest-api-h2:1.0.0.RELEASE

docker run 
	command to run an existing image		(it will run from local image repository only)

so if you run a remote image, it will pull that image to your local repository
and then it will run

docker run -p 5000:5000 in28min/todo-rest-api-h2:1.0.0.RELEASE

http://localhost:5000/hello-world


--------------------------
You have installed Docker
and able to run a docker image from hub.docker.com

Now, we will learn to deploy our spring boot application in docker
means, we will create a docker image of our own application
secondly, we will push the docker image to hub.docker.com
There are 2 ways we can create a docker image of a spring boot application
1) using Dockerfile
2) without docker file and using spring command


if the application is not spring app, then use docker file only

lets create a spring boot rest api "jfs004-demo-1"


command to find all the docker containers running in our system
	docker ps
	docker container ls
	docker ps -a		(all. Even invisible containers will be listed)

command to find the list of docker images in your local system
	docker images
	docker image ls

to remove docker container 
	docker rm container_id
	docker rm container_id -f

in hub.docker.com
	jagindia/jfs004-demo-1


For creating a docker image of our own application:
1) add a Dockerfile to the project
2) go to cmd in the location where Dockerfile is present
	i) create docker image
	ii) create a repository in hub.docker.com
	iii) tag the local image to the remote repository
	iv) push the image



docker run -p 5000:5000 jagindia/jfs004-demo-1
